docs/stdlib/list.md, before:

[up](index.md)

## List
inherits [Iterable](iterable.md)

This is technically an ArrayList, i.e. the memory is contiguous which makes indexing faster, at the cost of adding to the list might trigger a reallocation and that performance will linearly degrade as the list size increases.  It can be instantiated with a literal `[]` or statically initialized with `[value, "some string", ...]`

### constructor
- `List([initial_capacity])`
If given an `initial_capactiy` then the list will be pre-allocated to contain that number of values.  This means the index-assign operator can then be used to sparsely populate the list.

### methods
- `add(value)` appends the value to the end of the list
- `push(value)` alias for `add`
- `pop()` removes and returns the value at the end of the list
- `get_at(index)` returns the value at the given index, but does not remove it from the list
- `to_string()` returns a string representation of the list
- `size()` returns the number of items stored in the list
- `length()` alias for `size()`
- `sort()` returns a sorted shallow copy of the list
- `sort!()` sorts the list in-place, returning `self`

### operators
- `==` compares the contents of the list to another list to see if the contents (and order!) are identical
- `[]` returns the value at the given index (must be an integer)
- `[]=` assigns the given value to the given index (which must be an integer)

Commit message:

Update docs to current implementation
Added things like List.filter() and the rethrow keyword and fixed a GC
bug because of writing the docs out properly.

docs/stdlib/list.md, after:

[up](index.md)

## List
inherits [Iterable](iterable.md)

This is technically an ArrayList, i.e. the memory is contiguous which makes indexing faster, at the cost of adding to the list might trigger a reallocation and that performance will linearly degrade as the list size increases.  It can be instantiated with a literal `[]` or statically initialized with `[value, "some string", ...]`

### constructor
- `List([initial_capacity])`
If given an `initial_capactiy` then the list will be pre-allocated to contain that number of values.  This means the index-assign operator can then be used to sparsely populate the list.

### methods
- `add(value)` appends the value to the end of the list
- `push(value)` alias for `add`
- `pop()` removes and returns the value at the end of the list
- `get_at(index)` returns the value at the given index, but does not remove it from the list
- `to_string()` returns a string representation of the list
- `size()` returns the number of items stored in the list
- `length()` alias for `size()`
- `sort()` returns a sorted shallow copy of the list (not yet implemented)
- `sort!()` sorts the list in-place, returning `self` (not yet implemented)
- `filter()` takes a callable object which is called with every item, returning `true` if the item should be part of the list returned.  The list returned is a new object and the initial list is left unchanged.

### operators
- `==` compares the contents of the list to another list to see if the contents (and order!) are identical
- `[]` returns the value at the given index (must be an integer)
- `[]=` assigns the given value to the given index (which must be an integer)
